chapter: Jared's Brother's Prayer for the Lighting of the Stones

chapter-sum: Which he prayed at the top of Mount Shelem in preparation for the journey across the sea.
chapter-sum: As recorded in Ether 3:2-16 OPV
chapter-sum: Or Ether 1:60-81 RAV

The Brother of Jared. O Lord, 
. thou hast said that we must be encompassed about by the floods.
.
. Now behold, O Lord,
. and do not be angry with thy servant because of his weakness before thee;
. for we know that thou art holy 
. and dwellest in the heavens 
.
. and that we are unworthy before thee;
. Because of the fall, 
. our natures have become evil continually; 
. 
. nevertheless, O Lord, 
. thou hast given us a commandment that we must call upon thee,
. that from thee we may receive according to our desires.
.
. Behold, O Lord, 
. thou hast smitten us because of our iniquity 
. and hath driven us forth; 
. and for this many years we have been in the wilderness;
.
. nevertheless, 
. thou hast been merciful unto us.
. 
. O Lord, look upon me in pity,
. and turn away thine anger from this thy people, 
. and suffer not that they shall go forth across this raging deep in darkness, 
. 
. but behold these things which I have molten out of the rock.
. And I know, O Lord, 
. that thou hast all power 
. and can do whatsoever thou wilt
. for the benefit of man;
.
. Therefore, 
. touch these stones, O Lord, with thy finger 
. and prepare them 
. that they may shine forth in darkness;
. And they shall shine forth unto us in the vessels 
. which we have prepared, 
. that we may have light while we shall cross the sea.
. 
. **Behold, O Lord, thou canst do this.**
.
. We know that thou art able to show forth great power, 
. which looks small unto the understanding of men.

Narrator. // And it came to pass that when the Brother of Jared had said these words, behold, the Lord stretched forth his hand and touched the stones, one by one, with his finger; //
. // And the veil was taken from off the eyes of the Brother of Jared, and he saw the finger of the Lord; and it was as the finger of a man, like unto flesh and blood. //
. // And the Brother of Jared fell down before the Lord, for he was struck with fear. //
. // And the Lord saw that the Brother of Jared had fallen to the earth; //

The Lord. Arise, why hast thou fallen?

The Brother of Jared. I saw the finger of the Lord, 
. and I feared lest he should smite me;
. for I knew not that the Lord had flesh and blood.

The Lord. Because of thy faith, 
. thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood;
. And never has man come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast; 
. for were it not so, ye could not have seen my finger.
. Sawest thou more than this?

The Brother of Jared: Nay, Lord. 
. Show thyself unto me.

The Lord. Believest thou the words which I shall speak?

The Brother of Jared: Yea, Lord, I know that thou speakest the truth, 
. for thou art a God of truth and canst not lie.

Narrator. // And when he had said these words, behold, the Lord showed himself unto him //

The Lord. Because thou knowest these things, 
. ye are redeemed from the fall;
.
. Therefore, ye are brought back into my presence; 
. therefore, I show myself unto you.

. Behold, 
. I am he who was prepared 
. from the foundation of the world 
. to redeem my people.

. Behold, 
. I am Jesus Christ. 
. I am the Father and the Son.
. In me shall all mankind have life, 
. and that eternally, 
. even they who shall believe on my name; 
. and they shall become my sons and my daughters.
. And never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created, 
. for never has man believed in me as thou hast.
.
. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image?
. Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image.
. Behold, this body, which ye now behold, 
. is the body of my Spirit; 
. and man have I created after the body of my Spirit;
. And even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit, 
. will I appear unto my people in the flesh.
