chapter: Nephi's Psalm

chapter-sum: Which he wrote after the death of his father Lehi.
chapter-sum: As recorded in 2 Nephi 4:15 OPV
chapter-sum: Or 2 Nephi 3:29-66 RAV

. For my soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them and writeth them for the learning and the profit of my children.

. Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my heart pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and heard.

. Nevertheless, the great goodness of the Lord, in showing me his great and marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth, O wretched man that I am! Yea, my heart sorroweth because of my flesh.

. My soul grieveth because of mine iniquities.

. I am encompassed about because of the temptations and the sins which doth so easily beset me.

. And when I desire to rejoice, my heart groaneth because of my sins; nevertheless, I know in whom I have trusted.

. My God hath been my support; he hath led me through mine afflictions in the wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the waters of the great deep.

. He hath filled me with his love, even unto the consuming of my flesh.

. He hath confounded mine enemies unto the causing of them to quake before me.

. Behold, he hath heard my cry by day, and he hath given me knowledge by visions in the nighttime.

. And by day have I waxed bold in mighty prayer before him; yea, my voice have I sent up on high; and angels came down and ministered unto me.

. And upon the wings of his Spirit hath my body been carried away upon exceeding high mountains.

. And mine eyes have beheld great things, yea, even too great for man; therefore, I was bidden that I should not write them.

. Oh, then, if I have seen so great things, if the Lord in his condescension unto the children of men hath visited me in so much mercy,

. Why should my heart weep, and my soul linger in the valley of sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and my strength slacken because of mine afflictions?

. And why should I yield to sin because of my flesh?

. Yea, why should I give way to temptations, that the evil one have place in my heart to destroy my peace and afflict my soul?

. Why am I angry because of mine enemy?

. Awake, my soul! No longer droop in sin!

. Rejoice, O my heart, and give place no more for the enemy of my soul!

. Do not anger again because of mine enemies.

. Do not slacken my strength because of mine afflictions.

. Rejoice, O my heart, and cry unto the Lord, and say, O Lord, I will praise thee forever!

. Yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my God, and the rock of my salvation!

. O Lord, wilt thou redeem my soul?

. Wilt thou deliver me out of the hands of mine enemies?

. Wilt thou make me that I may shake at the appearance of sin?

. May the gates of hell be shut continually before me because that my heart is broken and my spirit is contrite!

. O Lord, wilt thou not shut the gates of thy righteousness before me, that I may walk in the path of the low valley, that I may be strict in the plain road?

. O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around in the robe of thy righteousness?

. O Lord, wilt thou make a way for mine escape before mine enemies?

. Wilt thou make my path straight before me?

. Wilt thou not place a stumbling block in my way?

. But that thou wouldest clear my way before me and hedge not up my way, but the ways of mine enemy.

. O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever.

. I will not put my trust in the arm of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that putteth his trust in the arm of flesh.

. Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh his arm.

. Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh.

. Yea, my God will give me if I ask not amiss; therefore, I will lift up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God, the rock of my righteousness.

. Behold, my voice shall forever ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine everlasting God. Amen.

